Some comments about integer truncation and division (#32)
mpusz/wg21-papers: src/2981R0_improving_our_safety_with_a_physical_quantities_and_units_library.md

## Preventing truncation of data

> The second safety feature of such libraries is preventing accidential truncation of quantity value. If we try

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second safety feature of such libraries is preventing accidental truncation of quantity value. If we try
```

```

We can't preserve the value of a source unit when we convert
to a unit with a lower resolution while using an integral representation type for a quantity. 

> In the example above converting 5 metre would result in 0 kilometre if internal conversion is 
> done using regular integer handling. While this could be valid behavior the problem arises when the 
> user expect to be able to convert the quantity back to the original unit without loss of information. 
> So the library should prevent such conversions from happening implicitly, wether the library 
> should offer explicitely marked unsafe conversions for cases is yet to be discussed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example above, converting 5 metres would result in 0 kilometres if internal conversion is 
done using regular integer handling. While this could be valid behavior, the problem arises when the 
user expects to be able to convert the quantity back to the original unit without loss of information. 
So the library should prevent such conversions from happening implicitly; whether the library 
should offer explicitly marked unsafe conversions for these cases is yet to be discussed.
```

This is why floating point representation types are recommended as a default to store the numerical
value of a quantity. Some popular physical units libraries even
[forbid integer division at all](https://aurora-opensource.github.io/au/main/troubleshooting/#integer-division-forbidden). 

The problem is similar to the one described in the section about accidental truncation of values 
through conversion. While the consequent use of floating-point representation types may be a good idea,
it is not always possible. Especially in close-to-the-metal applications and small embedded systems, the 

> use floating-point types is sometimes not an option, either for performance reasons or lack of hardware support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
use of floating-point types is sometimes not an option, either for performance reasons or lack of hardware support.
```

> Other than with cast operations offering an explicitely marked unsafe operator mathematical operator is more 

Reviewer: > "unsafe operator mathematical operator"

I'm not sure how to fix this.

Author: Changed it to ... offering a mathematical operator that is explicitly marked as unsafe" hope that makes it clear

> Other than with cast operations offering an explicitly marked unsafe operator mathematical operator is more 

Reviewer 2: this sentence is not clear to me 😢

Author: Changed it to "Having different operators for safe floating point operations and unsafe integer operations would force users to
use different symbols for quantities using floating-point or integral values which decreases usability significantly. " hope it is now somewhat clearer what I wanted to say

> The problem is similar to the one described in the section about accidential truncation of values 
> through conversion. While the consequent use of floating point representation types may be a good idea,
> it is not always possible. Especially in close-to-the-metal applications and small embedded sytem the 
> use floating point types is sometimes not an option, either for performance reason or lack of hardware support.
> Other than with cast operations offering an explicitely marked unsafe operator mathematical operator is more 
> diffcult as it would force users to use different symbols for quantities using floating point or integral values. 
> As such the need to explicitely enabling such unsafe operations through a compiler flag could be an option. 

Reviewer: I already left a comment saying that floating-point is a term with a dash: <https://github.com/mpusz/wg21-papers/commit/50e7482228b5396119911aa0977cf24aeccc01ab#r129455251>.

```suggestion
The problem is similar to the one described in the section about accidental truncation of values 
through conversion. While the consequent use of floating-point representation types may be a good idea,
it is not always possible. Especially in close-to-the-metal applications and small embedded systems, the 
use floating-point types is sometimes not an option, either for performance reasons or lack of hardware support.
Other than with cast operations offering an explicitly marked unsafe operator mathematical operator is more 
difficult as it would force users to use different symbols for quantities using floating-point or integral values. 
As such, the need of explicitly enabling such unsafe operations through a compiler flag could be an option. 
```
